# HeartAttackPrediction

Every day, the average human heart beats around 100,000 times, pumping 2,000 gallons of blood through the body. Inside your body there are 60,000 miles of blood vessels.
The signs of a woman having a heart attack are much less noticeable than the signs of a male. In women, heart attacks may feel uncomfortable squeezing, pressure, fullness, or pain in the center of the chest. It may also cause pain in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw or stomach, shortness of breath, nausea and other symptoms. Men experience typical symptoms of heart attack, such as chest pain , discomfort, and stress. They may also experience pain in other areas, such as arms, neck , back, and jaw, and shortness of breath, sweating, and discomfort that mimics heartburn.
It’s a lot of work for an organ which is just like a large fist and weighs between 8 and 12 ounces.

This is multivariate type of dataset which means providing or involving a variety of separate mathematical or statistical variables, multivariate numerical data analysis. It is composed of 14 attributes which are age, sex, chest pain type, resting blood pressure, serum cholesterol, fasting blood sugar, resting electrocardiographic results, maximum heart rate achieved, exercise induced angina, oldpeak — ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest, the slope of the peak exercise ST segment, number of major vessels and Thalassemia. This database includes 76 attributes, but all published studies relate to the use of a subset of 14 of them. The Cleveland database is the only one used by ML researchers to date. One of the major tasks on this dataset is to predict based on the given attributes of a patient that whether that particular person has a heart disease or not and other is the experimental task to diagnose and find out various insights from this dataset which could help in understanding the problem more.
